---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
feature-img: "img/sample_feature_img_2.png"
---
As an engineer and developer-in-training, I am all about problem solving.  I am an integrator who thrives on translating a vision into reality, and I've found my passion is doing this with code.  Almost one ago, I made the decision to pursue a career in software development, and since then I've learned Python, Objective-C, and more recently through Bloc, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular, Ruby, and Rails.  Born and raised on a dairy farm in Nebraska, I'm proud of my roots as a Cornhusker and the core values of hard work, kindness, and community that were instilled in me by my parents and grandparents.  As a mother of two young girls, I take the responsibility of being a role model for them very seriously, and they are my inspiration for facing my fears to pursue my passions.  After becoming a parent, my perspective on the future has taken on new meaning, and I am determined to use my experience to help solve some of the great challenges that face society.  

When I'm not programming or spending time with my family, I can usually be found exercising, reading or drinking way too much coffee.  Once in a blue moon, I break out Age of Empires (2nd Edition of course) or play the piano, and I have a strange obsession with lemons and peanut butter.  And coffee.  My husband and I both love to travel, and since he is Brazilian, I have learned Portuguese, as well as how to cook some delicious Brazilian food.  I also know how make a dangerously delicious caipirinha, which is a common drink from Brazil made from limes, sugar and cachaça, which is a Brazilian spirit made from sugar cane.  As an extroverted introvert, I enjoying getting to know people one-on-one, especially over...you guessed it...coffee.
